I went to a vocational school where I was able to fast track learning a trade.
Unexpectedly, I finished at the top of my class.
After that, my teachers and my classmates started to expect a lot more from me.
They were saying, you're doing so well. You represent the school.
You will have to work hard. You'll do great things.
You'll go far. They were constantly putting pressure on me to go for higher education
and to go to university.
There was this girl in high school who was my age.
She was very friendly. She always paid attention to me.
She was a nice person.
I also thought she was cute.
My classmates were like, go! Talk to her!
Or, hey, Isaac, do you know that she likes you?
And so, I wasn't sure what to do.
Of course, when I chose to go to that school, higher education wasn't the reason.
I wanted to fast track getting a trade and then starting a job so that I could earn my income.
That's what I thought.
It was a really difficult time for me.
I remember praying to Jehovah in tears for hours.
I didn't ask for advice.
Didn't talk to friends or people I trusted about it, not even my parents.
And little by little, I started to give into that pressure that I got because of this girl.
In the end, we started to flirt with each other.
We chatted and sent each other messages.
When I prayed to Jehovah, I didn't feel completely comfortable.
I thought, if I'm not doing what Jehovah is asking of me,
if I'm not behaving how Jehovah expects me to behave,
then how can I expect him to listen to my prayers or even consider them?
My family never told me to go or not to go to university,
but they reminded me of Jehovah's thinking.
My dad read Proverbs 27 verse 11 to me.
What I was doing was a barrier between me and Jehovah.
He helped me see that the decisions I make as a teenager affect Jehovah.
At that time, there were many videos, articles, and publications about this topic.
Reading experiences of those who went through similar things,
doing personal study on the subject,
and talking with spiritually mature brothers while in the ministry,
was very helpful for me.
Something that my parents did that helped me a lot
was that they used the book Young People Ask in Our Family Study,
and there's a chapter that talks about peer pressure.
Afterward, I was able to cope.
What helped me the most was something I heard at a circuit assembly.
The speaker said in his talk, yes, our young people have a lot of challenges right now.
And when it comes to higher education,
maybe their classmates and teachers are pressuring them, but you young people.
It felt like he spoke to me personally.
Your teacher or classmate might not even be part of your life in the future,
but if you want Jehovah always to be in your life,
then you need to make your decisions accordingly.
It was like a light went on in my head.
Now I was sure about what I needed to do.
I had to speak to her.
One day I prayed to Jehovah and got up the courage.
I told her that it couldn't continue with us.
Of course, explaining that to my classmates and to my teachers was a little hard.
I mean, it was difficult for them to understand.
Sure, I explained it, but they said, why would you do that?
For whoever is in the same situation that I was in,
the best thing to do is to talk to someone you trust.
Tell them how you feel and ask for help.
Our creator, Jehovah, is the one who thinks about me and loves me most.
He hasn't deprived me of anything good.
He always helps us and never leaves us.
I am so grateful to Jehovah.